The story of Leopold Engleitner
Leopold Engleitner was born on July 23, 1905 in Aigen-Voglhub, Austria.
When he resigned from belonging to the Catholic Church, religious intolerance again became known to him,
and because all human rights were disregarded, he was met with harsh persecution on all sides.
One day a district official in Bad Ischl paid me a visit and said that I could no longer receive unemployment benefit.
As a justification, he stated that there is no tolerance for any sect in Austria.
On October 5, 1939, a senior guard in the city of Linz came and told him the worst and most shocking news he had received in all his life.
"Mr. Engleitner, I am very sorry, but in an hour and a half you will be transported by train to the concentration camp in Buchenwald.
You can still get something to eat, because you do not know if you'll ever have a full stomach. "
On Wednesday, October 9, 1939, Leopold Engleitner arrived at the Weimar railway station in Turin, Germany.
Late in the evening he and other prisoners were mercilessly thrown into a prison truck.
Then they were transported by the so-called Blood Way that led to the Buchenwald camp.
They threatened me that they would close me with bears.
At first I thought it was funny, convinced that they were just joking.
Later, when I saw the bears in the box, I realized how dangerous I was.
As a novice, I was assigned to a penal company and I was given a purple triangle garment that meant I was a Jehovah's Witness
and a black dot that indicated that I was assigned to work in a quarry.
At the Wewelburg railway station, where he had to pack his tools, Leopold Engleitner experienced again SS brutality on his body.
One day, on the way home, he had to join another work unit, and because he could not keep pace, there was a small gap between him and the front.
The guard noticed, he became very angry, and brutally kicked him from the back with his boot in the underbelly between his legs.
Leopold Engleitner doubled in pain, then collapsed without being able to move.
I could not go any further.
Others had to take me to the camp.
During the evening roll-call I had to lie on the ground next to inmates.
Later I found out that the guard crushed one testicle.
In April 1943, Himmler stopped construction work and wanted to accelerate the closure of the concentration camp.
For this reason, in the spring of 1943 Leopold Engleitner was deported to the Ravensbrück concentration camp.
I was introduced to the medical officer of the camp. He asked me:
"Are you still a Jehovah's Witness?"
I said, "Yes, sir Hauptsturmführer" (captain)!
"In that case, we can not fire you, do you?" - he remarked.
He stared at me for some time until he finally said:
"Let me tell you something, we are glad to get rid of such a wretched creature as you."
In this respect, he was right because I was covered with ulcers and I weighed only 28 kilograms.
After more than four years of the most inhuman and brutal treatment, Leopold Engleitner returned home on July 16, 1943.
Then on April 17, 1945, Leopold Engleitner received a call to the army.
Within six hours he had to report to the headquarters (...) in Czechoslovakia.
Ever since I was determined not to participate in this frantic war, I had no choice but to flee to the nearby mountainous region.
He escaped (...) to the forest on the southern slope of Leonsberg.
He was a deserter now, refusing to serve in the army because of his conscience, and everyone had the right to shoot him.
NON-FERTIVE WILL
translation: rikardo consultation and proofreading: AL
Film directed by Bernhard Rammerstorfer